<h2>CIS 252 Project 1 – Deck of Cards (STACK)</h2>

<h4>Student: Patricia Antlitz - NECC Fall 2022 <br> Computer Science II</h4>
<h5>Project 1 - Deck of Cards</h5>

This is the Stack version of this Project.<br>

<h5>Objectives:</h5>

Student should be able to:

•	Use an stack<br>
•	Implement a Java interface<br>
•	Implement and utilize a stack data structure<br>

<h5>Introduction</h5>

This project has multiple parts.

Part 2 – Your Stack

Given the following stack interface, implement a LinkedStack of Cards called CardStack. You are welcome to build on the book’s stack, 
model your code after it, or write a stack from scratch.<br>

The Project1StackInterface.java follows:

```java
   public interface Project1StackInterface<T> {
    void push(T t); //adds and element to the stack

    void pop(); //removes the top element of the stack, no return

    T top(); //returns the top element of the stack

    T poptop(); //does a top then a pop

    int size(); //returns the number of elements in the stack

    void clear(); //empties the stack

    bool isEmpty(); //returns true if the stack is empty
}
```

You will need to create a Card class; you can create your own or use the one that follows:

```java
    public class Card { 
    
    //variables for the faces and suits would go here

    //constructor, this.something is coming from the "above" variables
    public Card(String suit, int face){
        this.suit = suit;
        this.face = face;
    }
    //methods from the interface
    public String getSuit(){
        return suit;
    }

    public void setSuit(String suit){
        this.suit = suit;
    }

    public int getFace(){
        return face;
    }

    public void setFace(int face){
        this.face = face;
    }

    public String toString(){
        return "Card{" + "suit=" + suit + ", face=" + face + '}';
    }
}

```

Your implementation of the CardStack will use a Card to actualize the generic: the interface supports generics but you want it full of cards, your class declaration should look something like:

```java
    public class CardStack implements Project1StackInterface<Cards> {
        //other code
	}

```
Create a test class for your CardStack that calls and checks all the methods.
`CardStack_PatriciaAntlitz.java`

<h4>Specs:</h4>

File `CardStack.java`:

<h5>variables used:</h5>
```java
    private Stack<Card> cardsStack;
    protected int countOne = 0;
    protected int countTwo = 0;
```

The methods that not from the interface:
```java
    public CardStack();         //constructor, created the array object and calls the method that inserts the cards into the stack

    public void shuffle()           //uses a loop to shuffle the cards and select a random index to use as a card next
    
    public void playCards()         //this is the method that plays the game. It will calls the other methods and use 
                                    //a while loop to have 6 rounds.
```

<h4>How its played:</h4>

This game is automatically generated by the applications. No user intake is used.

There are 2 players and 6 rounds. Each player draws one card per round. The cards are compared. 6 rounds were given to allow ties.

<h5>Hierarchy:</h5>

SUITS = The lowest suit is CLUBS, followed by DIAMONDS, HEARTS and SPADES. SPADES being the highest. Getting Spades would mean an automatic point, unless if the other player also gets one.

FACES = 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, JACK, QUEEN, KING and ACE. ACE being the highest.

<h5>Comparison:</h5>

It will compare the `SUITS` of each card first. If they are equal to each other, it will compare the value of the `FACES`.<br>
If the `FACES` are also equal, the round is a tie, and both players get a point. I not, the player with the highest FACE is the winner of that round (Ex. `JACK` is greater than `9`, etc.).

If the `SUITS` are NOT equal, it will check if the SUIT value of `PLAYER 1` is greater than the `SUIT` of player 2 (Ex.: `SPADES` are higher than `DIAMOND`)<br>
If so, player 1 is automatically the winner of the round, and gets a point.

Else, if `PLAYER 2` has a higher SUIT, then player 2 wins the round and gets a point.

Last, the method will compare which player has a higher count of points to pick a winner, or a tie.

`playCards()` from `CardStack.java` is the only method called in the main method. This method is the one calling all other methods that haven't been called until this point, `draw()`, `shuffle()`, `size()`, and the values from `Card.java`

<hr>
<h5>Problems:</h5>

I wanted to create the list using the Card file only. I wasted a lot of time trying to make that work (similiar to the LLNode.java examples).

I researched the Stack() library when it was first mentioned in the book, but since it didn't go deep into it I thought that I was not supposed to use it.

I was able to push, and get the size. Pop semi-worked, but I was getting some unexpected outputs sometimes. 

I really, really wanted to make it work because I think using a pre-set library defeats the purpose of learning this. But due to my 
limited time I ditched that version to stick with this one instead.

<hr>

<h5>Technologies</hr>
- JAVA 15.0.1


<hr>

<h3>To run:</h3>
<hr>

IDE:<br>
Build the project and run the CardStack_PatriciaAntlitz.java file

CLI:<br>
* Navigate to the correct directory ....../CardStack_PatriciaAntlitz/src <br>
* Run on terminal:
    * javac CardStack_PatriciaAntlitz.java => compile
    * java CardStack_PatriciaAntlitz.java => run

by [Patricia Antlitz - GitHub](https://github.com/patybn3)